Add docs for events and actions fetched from network API (#312)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/zkapps/advanced-snarkyjs/actions-and-reducer.mdx

Right now, `getActions` is available for [testing with `LocalBlockchain`](/zkapps/how-to-test-a-zkapp).

### Fetching Actions from an Archive Node

> Since are emitted action data is stored in transaction data, actions will only be persisted by an Archive Node. To fetch action data from an Archive Node, you can use the `archive` property on the `Mina.Network` function. For example:

Reviewer: Grammar on first sentence.

Is the `archive` parameter optional if their app doesn't need to consume this, or will it error?

> If your smart contract uses actions, you'll need to provide an `archive` property on your object passed to `Mina.Network()`, containing an Archive Node API GraphQL URL.

Reviewer: So I interpret this as saying it's an optional property on the object used by `Mina.network()`, but the two methods you mentioned will fail at either build or runtime in that scenario. Is that correct? If so, can you create an issue on the Custom ESLint Plugin to identify if this scenario exists, so we can warn about it? Goal is to give devs feedback earlier.

```ts

> let Network = Mina.Network({

Reviewer: const

  mina: '', // Use https://proxy.berkeley.minaexplorer.com/graphql or https://api.minascan.io/node/berkeley/v1/graphql
  archive: '', // Use https://api.minascan.io/archive/berkeley/v1/graphql/ or https://archive.berkeley.minaexplorer.com/
});
Mina.setActiveInstance(Network);
```

> By setting the `archive` property to one of the listed endpoints, SnarkyJS will use one of the selected endpoints to fetch action data. For example, let us assume that a zkApp has already emitted actions and has broadcasted the transaction. To fetch actions for a zkApp, you can use the `getActions` function:

Reviewer: Would add parenthesis `getActions()`. But should it be `fetchActions()` instead of `getActions()`?

Will let Barrie review for wording here.

```ts
class MyContract extends SmartContract {
  ...
  @method getActionsExample() {
    // Get all actions for this zkApp

>     let pendingActions = this.reducer.getActions({

Reviewer: cons

      fromActionHash: actionsHash,
    });
    this.reducer.reduce(
      pendingActions,
      Field,
      (state: Field, action: Field) => {
        ...
      },
      { state: counter, actionsHash }
    );
  }
}
```

> `getActions` takes an optional `fromActionHash` parameter which is the `actionsHash` of the last action that was processed. If `fromActionHash` is not provided, `getActions` will fetch all actions for the zkApp. `getActions` returns a list of actions that were emitted after the `fromActionHash` was processed.

Reviewer: `getActions` > `getActions()`

> `getActions()` accepts an object an optional `fromActionHash` property, where the value is the `actionsHash` of the most recent action that was processed.

> "was processed" 
Could we clarify to be explicit about what this means? I.e. 'received by the zkApp account' or something like that?

### Actions for concurrent state updates

> We imagine that one of the most important use cases for actions is to enable concurrent state updates. This is also why actions where originally added to the protocol.

Reviewer: opportunity to reword CC @barriebyron 
I'd suggest stating the value prop, without any "we imagine"

You can set the `archive` property to one of the following endpoints:

```sh
https://api.minascan.io/archive/berkeley/v1/graphql
```

```sh
https://archive.berkeley.minaexplorer.com
```

For example:

```ts
const Network = Mina.Network({
  mina: '', // Use https://proxy.berkeley.minaexplorer.com/graphql or https://api.minascan.io/node/berkeley/v1/graphql
  archive: '', // Use https://api.minascan.io/archive/berkeley/v1/graphql/ or https://archive.berkeley.minaexplorer.com/
});
Mina.setActiveInstance(Network);
```

Within your smart contract, you can use `getActions()` to retrieve actions emitted by your smart contract as part of previous transactions.

```ts
class MyContract extends SmartContract {
  ...
  @method getActionsExample() {
    // Get all actions for this zkApp
    let pendingActions = this.reducer.getActions({
      fromActionHash: actionsHash,
    });
    this.reducer.reduce(
      pendingActions,
      Field,
      (state: Field, action: Field) => {
        ...
      },
      { state: counter, actionsHash }
    );
  }
}
```

> By default, `getActions()` retrieves all actions from the very first ever emitted for that zkApp account. However, you can provide an object containing an optional property named `fromActionHash` where the value is an `actionsHash` to indicate the starting point of the actions to be retrieved and processed by your smart contract. Note that actions _after_ the specified hash will be retrieved—i.e. it is not inclusive.

Reviewer 2: I wasn't clear about suggesting that we change "containing" to "that contains" 
Is there a technical difference? If not, let's use "that contains"

> To see a end-to-end example of zkApp fetching actions from a running network and including them into your zkApp, see this voting app example in the [voting.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/snarkyjs/blob/main/src/examples/zkapps/voting/voting.ts) file in examples provided in the codebase repo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For an end-to-end example of zkApp fetching actions from a running network and including them into your zkApp, see this voting app example in the [voting.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/snarkyjs/blob/main/src/examples/zkapps/voting/voting.ts) file in examples provided in the codebase repo.
```

Right now, `getActions` is available for [testing with `LocalBlockchain`](/zkapps/how-to-test-a-zkapp).

### Fetching Actions from an Archive Node

Since Mina nodes do not store historical network information and actions are not kept on-chain, emitted actions are only preserved in the Archive Node. Consequently, a zkApp must fetch its previously emitted actions on the Mina network from an Archive Node.

> As the Archive Node is essentially a database, it does not offer a user-friendly API that SnarkyJS can readily utilize to fetch actions. To address this issue, a GraphQL server was developed to retrieve network information such as actions and actions from the Archive Node. SnarkyJS will use this GraphQL server to fetch actions from the Archive Node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the Archive Node is essentially a database, it does not offer a user-friendly API that SnarkyJS can readily utilize to fetch actions. To address this issue, a GraphQL server was developed to retrieve network information such as actions and actions from the Archive Node. SnarkyJS uses this GraphQL server to fetch actions from the Archive Node.
```

Reviewer 2: even when future events are mentioned, style guidance is to use present tense https://developers.google.com/style/tense please apply throughout

Reviewer 2: hit up the present tense throughout, thanks!

Reviewer 3: Note "actions and actions". Might be intended as "events as actions"?

Reviewer 2: Good catch

Reviewer: I'm going to suggest a bigger change here 1.) to avoid confusion over database vs API, and 2.) to highlight the ability to store data using any datastore, given past experience where community wrongly read into old docs on this specific aspect, and we rewrite the docs to be more clear that any data store can be used.

> The Mina archive node offers the ability for operators to store data using any data store of their choice, however, it does not currently expose a built-in API to query this data publicly. To address this, the [Mina Archive Node API](https://github.com/o1-labs/archive-node-api) was developed and can be run by archive node operators to provide a GraphQL API from which zkApp smart contracts can retrieve events and actions.

> As the Archive Node is essentially a database, it does not offer a user-friendly API that SnarkyJS can readily utilize to fetch actions. To address this issue, a GraphQL server was developed to retrieve network information such as actions and actions from the Archive Node. SnarkyJS will use this GraphQL server to fetch actions from the Archive Node.

Reviewer 2: I see this content is repeated in another topic, let's sync up and talk about how we can repurpose the archive node description in one place and then have that place come to these new (awesome, btw!) topics

> To configure SnarkyJS to use an Archive Node to fetch actions, use the `archive` property in the `Mina.Network` function. The `archive` property must be specified in the `Mina.Network` function to fetch actions from an Archive Node; otherwise, an error will occur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure SnarkyJS to use an Archive Node to fetch actions, use the `archive` property in the `Mina.Network` function. The `archive` property must be specified in the `Mina.Network` function to fetch actions from an Archive Node; otherwise, an error occurs.
```

Reviewer: Building on Barrie's:

> If your smart contract needs to fetch actions from an archive node, simply provide an `archive` property within the object passed into `Mina.Network({mina: '...', archive: '...'})`. Its value should be the URL for the GraphQL API service that you want to use. If this property does not exist, an error will occur.

Future tense seems appropriate in this case (`an error will occur`) given it's an "if/then", no?

You can set the `archive` property to one of the following endpoints:

```sh
https://api.minascan.io/archive/berkeley/v1/graphql
```

```sh
https://archive.berkeley.minaexplorer.com
```

> For example, to use the `archive` property, see the following example code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```ts
const Network = Mina.Network({
  mina: '', // Use https://proxy.berkeley.minaexplorer.com/graphql or https://api.minascan.io/node/berkeley/v1/graphql
  archive: '', // Use https://api.minascan.io/archive/berkeley/v1/graphql/ or https://archive.berkeley.minaexplorer.com/
});
Mina.setActiveInstance(Network);
```

> By setting the `archive` property to one of the listed endpoints, SnarkyJS uses the selected endpoint to fetch events. For instance, if a zkApp has already emitted events and broadcasted the transaction, you can use the `getActions()` function to retrieve actions for a zkApp:

Reviewer: Could we simply this to? 

> Within your smart contract, you can now use `getActions()` to retrieve actions emitted by your smart contract as part of previous transactions.

Reviewer: @barriebyron Goal here is that they have to have done the preceeding step in order for this to be possible. That's the goal of now. Maybe you can suggest an alternative?

```ts
class MyContract extends SmartContract {
  ...
  @method getActionsExample() {
    // Get all actions for this zkApp
    let pendingActions = this.reducer.getActions({
      fromActionHash: actionsHash,
    });
    this.reducer.reduce(
      pendingActions,
      Field,
      (state: Field, action: Field) => {
        ...
      },
      { state: counter, actionsHash }
    );
  }
}
```

> The `getActions()` function accepts an optional `fromActionHash` parameter. This `actionsHash` is derived from processing Account Updates and indicates the starting point for your zkApp to begin processing actions. If `fromActionHash` is not provided, `getActions()` get all actions for the zkApp, since the first one. The function returns a list of actions emitted after the specified `fromActionHash` has been processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `getActions()` retrieves all actions from the very first ever emitted for that zkApp account. However, you can provide an object containing an optional property named `fromActionHash` where the value is an `actionsHash` to indicate the starting point of the actions to be retrieved and processed by your smart contract. Note that actions _after_ the specified hash will be retrieved—i.e. it is not inclusive.
```

@MartinMinkov From your text, it appears that the specified actionHash is excluded from the returned results. Is that correct? That's somewhat surprising behavior, no? Is there is a reason it can't or shouldn't be inclusive?

Reviewer 2: It seems awkward at first, but I still promote present tense, even for future actions
In this case
will be retrieved >> is retrieved

https://developers.google.com/style/tense

> To see a end-to-end example of zkApp fetching actions from a running network and including them into your zkApp, [see this example](https://github.com/o1-labs/snarkyjs/blob/main/src/examples/zkapps/voting/voting.ts).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see an end-to-end example of zkApp fetching actions from a running network and including them into your zkApp,  see this [voting app example](https://github.com/o1-labs/snarkyjs/blob/main/src/examples/zkapps/voting/voting.ts).
```

Reviewer 2: we have an initiative to use descriptive link text, per https://developers.google.com/style/link-text

### Actions for concurrent state updates

One of the most important use cases for actions is to enable concurrent state updates. This enablement is also why actions were originally added to the protocol.

A detailed explanation of the problem, and how actions can provide the solution, can be found here: https://github.com/o1-labs/snarkyjs/issues/265#issuecomment-1177512908

> We also have a [full code example](https://github.com/o1-labs/snarkyjs/blob/main/src/examples/zkapps/reducer/reducer.ts) which demonstrates this pattern. Leveraging `Reducer.reduce`, it takes only about 30 lines of code to build a zkApp which handles concurrent state updates.

Reviewer: `Reducer.reduce()`
